---
title: Greenruby 168
date: 2016-04-25T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - grenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-168.html
---
## Nanoservices

That link to [Shoutcloud][shoutcloud] made me laugh and then made me think.
It's not the first time I see some micro-service publicly available. 2 years
ago there was some talk about [nano-services as an antipattern][nanoservice].
But when you push the logic a little further, and at a very large scale, maybe
it's a projection of what the future will be.

Imagine our software totally destructured, calling functions taht are stored
on the net, using some load balanced worldwide environment. We already do that
with CDNs. Javascript next Modules proposals will go in that direction as
well. But what is a method call in a program that we know today could become a
service call of an external globally available function.

After all we always write the same code. How many time did you write a regexp
for [email pattern validation][emailregexp]? The RFC 822 and 5322 are nasties,
yeah. If we had no latency consideration, I would gladly delegate various
pieces of code to a specialized service. But latency, is it really an issue
now? We work more and more with async code, with queues and messages. What
seems heretic for our current legacy standards would not seem that foolish in
a slightly different context.

So technically, I suppose nanoservices are a possible future. I even think
it's a requirement for scaling any kind of agent-based architecture. Machine
learning will be much better off by just registering maps to knowledge than
knowledge itself. But I wonder about the economical side of things. The old
capitalist market economy is already stretching its reach far beyond its
original statement with immaterial economy. The totally destructured
immaterial one will certainly propose an interesting challenge.

[shoutcloud]: http://shoutcloud.io
[nanoservice]: http://www.infoq.com/news/2014/05/nano-services
[emailregexp]: http://emailregex.com/
