---
title: Greenruby 177
date: 2016-06-26T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - greenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-177.html
---
## Remote working

For some random strange reason I had a lot of links this week about remote
working websites. I know it's a very real topic for our craft. But I still see
a lot of companies that have hard time coping with the concept.

On one hand, there is a shortage of technically skilled staff. The growth of
the tech industry and especially the online services is way too fast for the
education system to catch up. It's been like that for pretty much 20 years
now. And there is an unbalanced repartition between where the growing
companies are and where the growing population of techies are. So it would
only make sense that either relocation would be much easier or remote working
much more widespread, no? Well, no. Relocation is bound to laws that are not
driven by the only technical area. And remoting is dependent on a cultural and
also legal shift.

Because working with remote staff, many of us know what it means. First it
involves a level of trust in the staff that is unprecedented. The same level
of trust you need to invest when working with a contractor, actually. Then the
old-fashioned control and command system in place with traditional management
systems gets totally inefficient.

More even, to be efficient with a remote team means adopting a work
organization and tools that are specifically thought for this setup. From what
I can experience, it's either one or the other. When half the staff works in
an office locally it's not easy (yet not impossible) to be efficient with
another half remote.

Some stuff will be likely to happen locally with old ways of oral
communication and meetings with sparse note-taking. That will put the remote
staff in the dark of some parts of the internal process. It may create a
double-speed kind of organization, there is the ones that are full speed and
the ones that are just, well, not in the core. Oh it's still possible to make
it work. It's just harder.

Or maybe it's like the web and the mobile. Slowly companies need to become
remote-first and then eventually also work on local office-based scale. But
there are still various barriers for having a real remote-friendly world
anyways. The legal status is not clear,m for example, money transfers between
countries, compliances with social coverage conventions, no international law
seems to cover international employment with individuals.

From what I can understand, remote working from a distant country is still a
hack, legally speaking. Companies need to find tricks. Luckily, hacking is
something we are not bad at. But still. I wonder when it's going to change,
and see a legal ground for a really normal remote working context.
