---
title: Greenruby 178
date: 2016-07-03T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - grenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-178.html
---
## Open code, a chance for improvement

Since I'm writing code I try to publish as much as I can as open source
components. But I had occasion to work in situations where it was not
possible. And I noticed some serious differences in the result.

When you publish some code on, say, Github, you can just throw it as is and be
done with it. Then you merely use github as a repository provider and don't
care much about anything else. But when you begin to spend some time doing it,
you notice that external contributor can bring great fixes, help detect bugs,
and generally speaking make your code more valuable in itself.

But this is a two-ways road. To invite people to collaborate you need to
address a certain amount of little details. Writing a decently clear README is
a demonstration of politeness for any passing guest. It's just more inviting.
Making sure you have a complete enough test suite guarantees you can be sure
external contributions won't mess up existing code (if writing tests in itself
was not motivating enough). Refactoring your code by following
[codeclimate][codeclimate] advises will break huge methods in small pieces,
making things easier to be improved. Enforcing some kind of [style guide][rubocop] 
will avoid people to get confused by a non-standard code-art.
(that person could be you in one year).

All those aspects, when you work at a company as the only coder on one piece
of code, you don't have that much incentive to enforce them. And I know about
it because I have seen a huge lot of legacy code that was written that way.
With lame tests that only purpose was to enforce code coverage without really
testing much, weird code style, epic methods, no instructions. If it's just
you and a couple of friends that you see every day, it's fine, you can deal
with it. For a time.

The fact is that exposing your code brings an incentive to work on the
(apparently) non-essential aspects of your code. But those aspects really
bring a huge improvement on the long term. Which leads me to consider that
opening source code is a way that can lead to make it better.

An usually, I noticed that the bosses don't care if it's open or not, as far
as there is no trade secrets revealed. But well we write so much code that if
business-neutral for many things. At the end of the day, it's only the matter
of asking the boss if you can free this or that code, and then it's on its
way. Even more if the code is published under an organization on github, there
is even more incentive to make it clean, and it will also help possible
candidates to understand what kind of stack you are dealing with, and what
kind of principle you try to enforce. Even if it's actually only enforced in
your open source code and the hidden code is messy. Haha.

So, I ask you now, what in your current codebase could you extract as an open
source gem? or node package?

[codeclimate]: https://codeclimate.com/
[rubocop]: https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop 
