---
title: Innovation and Consensus
date: 2016-07-24T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - culture
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-181.html
---
Last week I got to check out 2 javascript frontend frameworks, [Choo][choo]
(the cute framwework) and [Cycle.js][cyclejs] (the streams power). It feels
that nowadays React is eating the frontend world, but there is actually a lot
of non-marginal alternatives. It made me think that there is something tricky
with the process of innovation. It is born from disagreement. It feeds with
discontent.

Those frameworks are born from the refusal to consider React as a consensus,
hence it generates an alternative path, exploring different paradigms. In my
opinion, and from an global point of view, it's a sign of vivacity of an
ecosystem. Diversity of species guarantees a larger span of choice for the
natural selection and a faster evolution.

But consensus and normative approaches have so many virtues. Damn, this is
tricky. Well, here is the catch. Unicity in the software ecosystem creates
stability, which in turn creates comfort for the actors involved in the
industry. Habits get stronger, mobility is easier, interoperability leads to
bigger systems with long life-cycles. This is good.

On another hand diversity creates instability, challenges the developers and
makes it harder to find common grounds. It favors exploration and smaller
systems with shorter life-cycles. In a diverse ecosystem, paradigms and new
ideas are born and die quickly. And I think it's a much more rich ecosystem.

For some reason this duality reminds me of the cathedral and the bazaar. It's
totally unrelated, actually, but maybe there is some kind of interesting
parallel in this metaphor collision. But beyond that, there is a real
antagonism for developers, and an opposing interest between the development
workforce and the software as a living species.

And I have the feeling that on the long run, diversity and innovation win. So
you better get used to the discomfort it brings. Train yourself to jump from
one framework to another. Don't let yourself getting lazy by going to the
comfortable consensus systematically. This ability to cope with change is your
best hope for staying current. Because the change if the way of the evolution.

[choo]: https://github.com/yoshuawuyts/choo
[cyclejs]: http://cycle.js.org/ 
