---
title: Greenruby 185
date: 2016-08-21T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - greenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-185.html
---
## Working out

During the past year I have been doing some working out. No no there is no
fitbit involved. Are you crazy? My physical activity includes a strict refusal
of pointless efforts. I deliberately choose to use the bike rather than the
bus, it has the purpose of transportation,. But just getting sweaty for the
sake of it, well, that's not my thing. I'm talking about a git-commit working
out. I decided to have one commit a day on github (minimum) and instead of the
fitbit or whatever phone app, I used the github timeline as a monitor.

So that's one year now and I got my [github
timeline](https://github.com/mose/) all green. In itself it doesn't achieve
anything except for myself. I mean, it's quite easy to fill up a timeline with
fake entries. But by getting this challenge of one commit a day, it led to
some valuable outcomes. I got some more work projects validated to be
published as open source. Whenever I was not feeling inspired for code commit,
I was chasing typoes in my Readme's, or dependencies upgrades in my gems.

Overall, it had quite a good impact on my coding publication, on the updating
of my blog (well, that blpg mostly gather the rants I do here), and various
other small details. Well, I'm not a very famous open source coder, just an
average joe. But a persistent one. It's very easy to just upload shit on
github and forget about it. Having this regular commitment made me come back
on some old things, keep them current somehow.

Getting some routine in place that includes open source activity has various
benefits, even when you don't have an audience. You should try it.
