---
title: A stress-free life
date: 2016-09-25T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - lifestyle
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-190.html
---
Next friday, I've been told that I have to stop working for 2 weeks. Well, for
people that have a normal life and/or kids, it's a pretty good news. For
people that get heavy pressure from their work, it can give some air. But I
wondered why I didn't feel like I ever felt the need for holidays. I take them
by principle, but I'm usually not really eager to get them.

After some consideration, it all sums up to some kind of discipline. I refuse
stress on a daily basis. I want each day at work to be enjoyable and
debt-free. It's a bad news for some category of employers. The same way those
consider it's acceptable to accumulate technical debt, they apply the same
principle on human-life debt. Put people under pressure, get a loan on their
health, that will never be repaid. So, I just refuse pressure, the same way I
would refuse to eat meat if I was really vegetarian (which I am only
part-time).

Really I have more trouble with holidays because they bring a gap in the
continuity of work. You get back and there is a lot to catch up on. I would
prefer to have just one hour work less per day than week-long breaks. But
that's just me. It would be totally different if I wanted to travel for fun or
if I had kids. My case is not reproducible.

But the baseline remains valid. whether you have plans or not for holidays,
they should not be required for having a balanced life. Stress has to be
fought on a daily basis and not by using breaks. Breaks, in such case, are
even more enjoyable, if you have the context for it.

The best way I know to push stress away is to put my efforts into what I do,
in a way that I'm self-aware that I'm really doing what I can to fulfill my
duties. If someone is not happy about the output, that's their problem not
mine. If it leads to some awkward context, then it's broken and I will reach
out to find a better work context. I apply that principle for more than 20
years now and I can't remember last time I felt stressed.
