---
title: Greenruby 100
date: 2015-01-04T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - greenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-100.html
---
This week is the 100th edition of Green Ruby, it's also the first one of 2015.
This week the [Linux Outlaws][1] broadcasted their last show, and Rebecca
Watson left the [Skeptics Guide to the Universe][2]. Those are 2 podcasts that
I never list in the Green Ruby list (they are not really on topic) but I
rarely miss any of them. Too bad they leave. I thought about it too, but no, I
will stay.

So, happy new year or, as we say in french: Bananier!

For 100 weeks already I gathered those links and sent them to whoever wants
them. Every damn single week. Just for the fun of it. This is a kind of
personal kata, it keeps me in the loop. I just make my exercise in a way I can
share it. And my streak of never missing one week is a kind of personal
challenge.

There is now 971 subscribers to the mail newsletter, a whole lot of people
prefer to subscribe using the RSS feed, and the website has 8 or 9k visits per
month. But this is still a side project, with no business behind it. Just one
single guy and a couple of friends sharing the result of their weekly review
of the news of their craft.

So, as you can notice, the edito becomes a rant, and is going to get a bit
longer. For a while I was trying to keep it short just because it sits on the
top of the letter. What matters are the links and not the ranting. By moving
the blah blah at the bottom, I free myself from format constraints and can
unleash my writing desires. muahaha. Not that I have much to say. But you can
consider this new section of Green Ruby as the last screen displayed in [The
Big Bang Theory][3], where producers display some random thoughts, rants or
anecdote. You need to pause the video for being able to read them. Yeah I know
I could just blog like everybody else. But it's just convenient for me to
include this writing in my weekly process.

I also improved formatting for text-only diffusion. There is still something
bugging me about the link tracking, which is mandatory when using the free
tier of Mailchimp service. I guess I will have to find a way around: either I
will get away from mailchimp, either I will find a sponsor to pay for removing
the tracking (sounds funny when I say it that way, no?). Goddamn I hate
tracking-by-default. Maybe I will end up setting up my own postfix with some
mailman. Or use something? If you know a good free software self-hosted
solution for newsletters feel free to drop me a mail.

It's amazing how many times I saw dev add google analytics on their templates
and at the end nobody was going to check stats except for volume metrics. If
you only need volumetric data, use your web server logs! If you really need
fine metrics, why not consider using self-hosted analytics like [Piwik][4]?

Don't get me wrong, I don't hate analytics. What bothers me is what is made of
those data. Many companies chose as a business model to consider the user as a
merchandise. And most of the time they are not clear about it.

Oh, one last word, next week I will prepare an option so you can chose to
receive only the links and no rant. Or only the rant and no links. Maybe I
will make each section of the letter opt-out too, if you never listen to
podcasts why should you get those, right? I just like choice.

[1]: http://sixgun.org/episodes/lo370
[2]: http://www.theskepticsguide.org/podcast/sgu/495
[3]: http://www.chucklorre.com/index-bbt.php
[4]: http://piwik.org
