---
title: Greenruby 101
date: 2015-01-11T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - devops
  - greenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-101.html
---
## 1000 subscribers

After the 100th Greenruby last week, we get the 1000th subscriber to the email
newsletter this week. Welcome George :) So for the occasion I refreshed the
[subscribers map][1] on cartodb. About half of the subscribers are in the US,
but there is a total of 73 countries represented, which is pretty neat. But
this is based on the ip used for subscribing, so it's not totally accurate.

## Fighting logs pollution

Some time ago, on edition 82, I posted a link to my webalizer stats for the
greenruby website. Fatal mistake, I had referrers stats enabled and I got
somehow listed somewhere. The consequence was a lot of fake traffic with only
purpose to get links listed in my referrers section. After removing this
section from webalizer config, and moving the url, the fake traffic was still
there. Like a blind wave. This was pretty annoying.

So I began to take some drastic measures. Because I didn't have referrers
anymore in my stats, I went to my apache logs (yes it's an old server, still
running apache2) and fire up a:

    tail -5000 greenruby.org-access.log | cut -d' ' -f11 | sort | uniq -c | sort -n

This give me a nice view of the recent referrers. Fake ones are easy to
notice. And that the fake traffic was only coming from a handful of ips, so I
just made a few:

    iptables -A INPUT -s <ip> -j DROP

The result was radically efficient. Certainly I had less volume but it's now
much cleaner. But it makes it clear that having clean volume stats for traffic
on your website is not that easy. There are a bunch of fake traffic sources
that you may not suspect.

## New server soon

I got a new job 2 month ago at [gandi][2], and there is some nice [VPS
hosting][3] there. I can have a machine just for Green Ruby there. It can be
neat and open some options. Green Ruby website is still very static. Various
attempts to improve it with a search engine didn't end up to something
concluding yet. Maybe this time it will.

That also may be the occasion to build up a distribution system and move out
of mailchimp. I looked around and all I found was php based. So I will
probably just write my own ruby scripts, the [mail gem][4] looks great and the
rest is a question of configuring a postfix with correct [SPF and DKIM
setup][5].

## Je suis Charlie

Well, this tragedy that happened this Thursday in France impacts a lot of
people. Somehow, it perhaps impacts me more than the average. When I was
younger I went to art school to become a cartoonist, and finally I changed my
mind. But I knew the work of the victims of this slaughter. They were icons in
the French cartoon world.

It's really sad, first because this is murder, second because the irrational
impact it will have on society. This is crazy how a handful of brain-dead
punks can bend history. Now France is going to become even more paranoid. I
already was so uncomfortable when they began to send military with assault
rifles wander in the train stations in Paris. It's not going to get better.

[1]: http://mose.cartodb.com/viz/6a4d431e-d6b7-11e3-8757-0e10bcd91c2b/embed_map
[2]: http://gandi.net
[3]: https://www.gandi.net/hosting/iaas
[4]: https://github.com/mikel/mail
[5]: http://www.linuxlasse.net/linux/howtos/Postfix_with_DKIM_%28OpenDKIM%29_and_SPF
