---
title: Greenruby 105
date: 2015-02-08T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
origins:
  - Greenruby
---
## Damn omnivore

Last week Green Ruby was sent with a delay. For some obscure reason my
publication was blocked by [Omnivore][1] the automated fraud detection system
from Mailchimp. My account was instantly blocked and it was pending a human
review. Of course the human review made it clear that the publication was
clean but it took 2 days and I still don't know why this omnivore beast went
mad at me.

They declare it's getting smarter everyday, but really, we are still safe. The
reign of the intelligent computer over the human species is not close yet.

## Make it static

Dynamic websites are great. But that's a long time I wonder about the
trade-off. If you update your blog every day, and have 500 visits, your
dynamic setup is useful when you edit, and it's a cost for each visitor. There
are so many web applications that could be more clever about it. Especially
that now the computation is going more and more client side.

Static pages have a really unbeatable response time, their security is really
reliable, they are low dependencies and easy to deploy with a rsync.

When I get to think about making a new website, I always ask myself if it's an
application or a website. For sure some kind of applications are computation
intensive. Making it all dynamic could make sense. But frankly, if it's a
website, it can have some fancy dynamic features without a huge dynamic setup.

I have seen so many websites made with php, mysql, 5 tables and 20 entries in
each. Such site should have pre-generated content, data available as static
json files, as a bit of js to make the magic happen. If there is a lot of
data, fine, an API server makes sense.

So next time you gotta prepare a website, ask yourself how easy it could be to
generate it and use tools like [Jekyll][2] or [Middleman][3]. Or you can even
handle things with custom rake tasks ([like I do for Green Ruby website][4]),
that's not that hard. It's a matter of cyberspace ecology.

[1]: http://mailchimp.com/omnivore/
[2]: http://jekyllrb.com/
[3]: https://middlemanapp.com/
[4]: https://github.com/greenruby/grn-static/blob/master/lib/builder.rb#L87
