---
title: Greenruby 123
date: 2015-06-14T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - geekworld
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-123.html
---
## A word about project gardening

In the last 2 companies where I worked, there was this recurring issue.
Actually I noticed it for a while but for some reasons it became more obvious
to me with time passing. The project management role is usually badly
fulfilled.

But at some point, and even from the point of view of a developer, there is in
projects the need for a dedicated person for doing some gardening. Yeah it's
all about daily ungrateful clearing the bad weeds, making sure the soil is
rich enough, and that the seeds are all planted where they should be planted,
that soil pH is adequate for this or that variety. Having someone that is just
doing moderation on projects also frees the productive people from lengthly
and sometimes non technical meetings. It is the occasion to have someone that
keeps track of specs, sometimes gather them or (re)write them down in a
central place.

The problem in the transition from waterfall to agile, is that in the
waterfall model there is a hierarchic feeling in the role of the project
manager. The Management word into it is misleading. It leads the developers to
frown upon it. I have the impression that in agile teams, project management
is supposed to be taken care of organically by the dev teams, sometimes by the
scrum master or whatever facilitator is there for enforcing the agile process.
Or the product owner will be technical enough to fill up that role. More or
less.

But the reality is that project grooming is a full time job that may have to
be re-invented. It certainly should take in account developers creativity and
pertinence in the match of the objectives with the technical realities. But
it's necessary to have a person that is the reference on keeping track of the
need and follow the quality process at all the stages. Well, at least when you
begin to get many developers and many projects, and developers that work on
many projects.

I think it's a question of scale. Companies with less than 30 people may never
face that need because there is a natural fluidity internally and not that
many projects. But when you get to 100 and you still don't have people
dedicated to projects, then you can see developers burning out. Projects
become lousy because nobody has time to write specs. You also can see
emergence of hero coders that can by miracle make it all happen. But you will
postpone the problem because heroes are not scalable and can even be toxic on
the long run (as any experienced practitioner already knows).

Personally in my technical career I never liked the project managers that I
met. But that is a long time I didn't meet any. It dates from an age where
agile was not there yet. But now that I don't see them anymore, I feel that
something is missing. It certainly exists in various places. And I can bet
that many of them are as bad as they were in the last century. But maybe there
is a new species of project curators out there that I didn't meet yet. I read
about those in various places, but in my (small) world, this is still a
mythical beast.
