---
title: Greenruby 131
date: 2015-08-09T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
origins:
  - Greenruby
---
## Octopress 3 and other thoughts

I'm currently involved in a community project and I installed a wordpress.
From time to time I get one up to see how it evolves. But really this thing is
not to my taste. To much trouble for making simple things. I reckon it can be
useful for people with no technical knowledge but then they are going to mess
up everything. The technical advisor still can't be avoided.

So because now I saw a recent wordpress and didn't like it more than the
previous attempts, I will give a try to the new [octopress 3.0][octopress].
The octopress author [explains][30] that he's been doing it all wrong and now
on version 3.0 he gets back to sort of a collection of gems that plug into
jekyll. I kind of like the idea.

Well to be honest I was also tempted to give a try to [phoenix][phoenix], but
I know jekyll already and I don't have that much server resources for that
community project. Static web always have had my preference. But the idea
behind Phoenix is appealing. Like any new project it includes the new things
and don't have to bother about legacy. The channels ideas, creating a stream
between client and server, sounds very appealing.

But to get back to why I will prefer jekyll over wordpress, is that my
contributors are a mess. They don't care about styling, they copy-paste random
html all over the place and the final look is totally inconsistent. My hope is
that markdown would limit the possibilities of making a mess. But then I will
have to propose them the github edit, as a backend, unless I cheat and use
etherpad-lite as a pre-production backend.

That [etherpad-lite][etherpad] thing is amazingly simple, I used sometimes and
making it accessible behind a single password for everybody makes tings pretty
direct. But totally unsafe, I reckon. I will probably have to write some kind
of tool for managing the publication workflow. Hmm, that sounds like fun. If
you ever had the same kind of adventure, please [share with me][me] :)

[octopress]: http://octopress.org/
[30]: http://octopress.org/2015/01/15/octopress-3.0-is-coming/
[phoenix]: http://www.phoenixframework.org/
[etherpad]: http://etherpad.org/
[me]: mailto:mose@greenruby.org
