---
title: Just met Hugo
date: 2015-08-23T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - webdev
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-133.html
---
Some weeks ago I was talking about Octopress. I think pre-generation of
websites is a very sensible approach. And I heard about [Hugo][hugo] for some
time now. It's like a cousin of Jekyll but writen in Go. The author of
Middleman (another site generation engine) confessed in a [recent podcast][podcast] 
that he would try the Golang way if he had to start from
scratch today.

I got interested into Hugo mostly because one of the side projects I'm working
on. It involves a bunch of people that run on windows. Having a binary that
runs everywhere is a big plus for a gGo solution. Installing ruby is possible
on windows, but not really for noobs afaict.

Also, I want to check more Go projects. I have been playing in and out that
language for a while now. Version 1.5 seems really great. So I upgraded my
[gvm][gvm] and installed the thing. Well, I could havce just used the Hugo
binary, but where is the fun in that?

My first impression is very comfortable. It took a lot of the principles form
Jekyll. But it seems to have some extra options and concepts that may be a
little more advanced and seem very promising. The theming system is especially
cool. I will probably first port my own blog under Hugo before porting my
other project.

As a matter of fact, that's a while I'm considering that I never feed my blog,
but I should copy the rants I write here in there. It can be fun to add a rake
task in the greenruby publication process to also add a page in a nearby hugo
repo and publish it at the same time.

[hugo]: https://gohugo.io/
[podcast]: https://changelog.com/169/
[gvm]: https://github.com/moovweb/gvm
