---
title: Greenruby 134
date: 2015-08-31T12:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
origins:
  - Greenruby
---
## The dimensions of coding

Today while wandering around in my weekly hunt for good links, my eye has been
attracted by a post named [Coding is three dimensional][1]. It's quite an
interesting way to consider it. But the reason why it struck me is that it was
missing the fourth dimension. That makes all the difference when you get years
of coding. You know that time is a parameter.

Code don't exist out of time. It has a past, perspective of a future, that
both shape its current morphology. There are a lot of efforts to produce code
analysis. But the real analyst is an historian and needs a systemic approach
that includes time as a factor. We are still far from being able to automate
that. In some ways, it's a good news, we won't be replaced by small scripts
very soon.

The time factor is actually the essential element in the [technical debt][2]
formula. Purist coders can't cope with technical debt but if you have two
onces of business man inside, it makes total sense. The tradeoff in technical
quality versus fast deliverability only makes sense because the timing is
critical. [A mess is not a technical debt][3].

If coding was disconnected from the market, and if it was not a business or
more like an art, maybe time would not be that critical. But even open source
software is dependent on the market at one point or another. I fail to see how
it could be different.

Honestly, I would prefer clean coding and no market tradeoff, but that's just
a dream.

[1]: https://medium.com/@scosta/coding-is-three-dimensional-cb331d1b4ad8
[2]: http://martinfowler.com/bliki/TechnicalDebt.html
[3]: https://sites.google.com/site/unclebobconsultingllc/a-mess-is-not-a-technical-debt
