---
title: Rubyconf TW
date: 2015-09-13T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rubyconf
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-136.html
---
So these last 2 days we went to RubyConfTW here in Taipei, like every year. At
that occasion I kinda forced my buddies to take part in this rant section. So,
that occasion of meeting the ruby community was as usual very enjoyable. Year
after year we see the same people, the community is solid and persistent.

Like last years Matz was here and he talked about ruby 3 and, that was a
surprise to me, he talked about getting rid of the GIL very soon. That GIL
topic has been a taboo for so many years. Getting rid off it can change the
position of ruby in the family of the major scripting languages. He also
defined laziness as one of the 3 required characteristics of a good coder. I'm
not sure there is anything mainstream about those 3 qualities but for a long
time I had my set of 3 requirements to evaluate a good coder and laziness was
in it. maybe I will develop more about it in another rant.

During this conference I also had the occasion to hear a lot of direct
feedback from friends of Green Ruby. For example we have an irc channel but
many people are not that comfortable with that chat system from another
century and would prefer a slack room. As a matter of fact we have such a
room, but we forgot about it for the past year. It's alive again, feel free to
send a request for invite to news at greenruby.org to join
<http://greenruby.slack.com>. It's open to everybody.

## Rubyconftw by xenor

Hey I'm xenor and this is my first rant in Green Ruby News about (and not
about) [rubyconftw][rubyconf].

I work in a ruby shop and manage a couple of people, and I am recently feeling
burned-out. It affects motivation and productivity. I am in a position which
involves watching over colleagues output. But I also have my own coding
projects ongoing.

At first it's great and challenging. But after half a year, it starts to bite
me back. I get tired and anxious about not meeting my goal at the end of the
day while checking others progress. I also need more breaks than usual. The
typical burn-out syndrome.

Rubyconf gave me a break so that I can rethink what I was doing and how I can
evaluate things around me. During the conference, I found some time to do
[side project][squeezer]. This really helps and re-motivates me on programming
(I believe this could be called 'Conference Driven Development')

You might wonder why I didn't say anything about the talks. Actually, talks
are just as great as all other conferences, and can be watched on the
recordings that they will post soon. But the most important part is really the
atmosphere of encouragement to try and learn something new.

## Rubyconftw by tysliu

Greetings. This is tysliu and this is also my first rant and my experience
from going to 2015 Rubyconf TW.

The main benefit from attending rubyconf this year is that I said hello to
more people. I met past colleagues and also new people. It feels nice to see
familiar faces and catch up.

The most interesting talk for me this years was tenderlove's talk. It was
about how he attacked the issue of making Rails HTTP2 friendly. Basically,
Rails at the moment is not http2 compatible. This is due the the current
architecture of Rails and implementation of rack middlewares. During the talk
he was able to demo a prototype Rails that is H2 friendly.

The best news for Rails developers is that there are plans to for making HTTP
2 compatibility available in Rails 5.

[rubyconf]: http://2015.rubyconf.tw/
[squeezer]: https://github.com/tubaxenor/squeezer
