---
title: DST sucks, Thunderbird too, Gmail too
date: 2015-10-25T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - mail
  - timezones
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-142.html
---
This week-end they changed time in France. As I work with those guys to cover
the watching of servers, then I need to change time too. This is totally lame.
In the context of largely distributed teams, DST is heresy. It happens in the
US too, but not even at the same time. Man I hate DST. I'm happy we don't have
that in Taiwan.

## Thunderbird sucks too

Despite the respect I have for mozilla products and for their efforts toward
the community, I have to say that I have been using thunderbird for a while
and I don't like it. There is some lack of customability in there, it eats a
whole lot of memory and it's kinda slow sometimes. I have been considering
getting back to mutt, which is a totally different category of mail client.

But I found [claws][claws], and trying it for a few days on my various
mailboxes with hundreds of thousands of mails, and it is a very good feeling.
It's much more transparent and hackable and stays in the same category of the
clickable mail client as thunderbird. I'm not sure I will stick to claws,
maybe I will get back to mutt that I have been used so many years before. But
I sure will give that 'email client that bites' a try for a while.

## Gmail sucks more

I still can't figure out why people use gmail for reading their mail. I mean,
you leave management of your mail to google, you know what they do with it.
You also want to give them information about how you read your mail? I mean,
using a webmail, first, should be a fallback. But it's mystery for nobody that
google business is in profiling people. It blasts me how people can trust them
blindly.

[claws]: http://www.claws-mail.org/ 
