---
title: Greenruby 144
date: 2015-11-08T22:10:31+08:00
tags:
  - rant
  - grenruby
origin: GreenRuby
originurl: http://greenruby.org/grn-144.html
---
## Packaging a gem for Debian

Recently I had to package a gem for debian as a .deb. As a matter of fact,
there is a lot of companies that are not in the ruby ecosystem and they rely
on things they trust rather than rubygems. For a while debian was way behind
on the inclusion of ruby and versions were outdated there. So a parallel
distribution ecosystem had to be created. Now we have rvm, rbenv, or chruby
for ruby and bundler and rubygems for the packages. But where I work, they
package everything as debian packages. So I had to adapt.

So I went have a look at [the debian ruby team][debianruby] and checked out
the tools. That gem2deb tool is pretty convenient. I am using debian for a
while but never really had to package anything. The debian community process
is a bit complicated and they are not very inclusive. Compared to the ease of
uploading any gem to rubygems, it's quite a fortress, and people in the
process are not very welcoming.

Maybe it's generational. Debian started before sourceforge existed, they are
rooted in a community tradition that are very exclusive and a bit elitist. But
technology changes faster than people, obviously. Younger communities
bootstrap in a more fluid environment.

I'm not sure it is related but maybe it is, there was another epic [Linus
Hit][liushit] recently. Well, all those things put in perspective the niceness
of the ruby community. Really, cherish it and enjoy it, it's precious.

[debianruby]: https://wiki.debian.org/Teams/Ruby
[linushit]: http://thenextweb.com/dd/2015/11/02/linux-creator-linus-torvalds-had-a-meltdown-over-a-pull-request-and-it-was-awesome/
