---
title: Collective Intelligence in Space and Time
date: 2017-08-03T09:25:00+08:00
tags:
  - collective intelligence
---
In my previous post, I described the elements necessary for fostering 
[collective intelligence in Open Source projects][CIOSS]. That synthetic
description is very absolute, and for a proper implementation it needs
some adjustment regarding both **space** and **time**.

The space variable is environmental, where the project takes in 
account its surrounding. Partnerships, dependencies, markets, and customers
are some of the possible impacting external factors that need to be taken 
in account.

The time parameter involves considering the intermediary steps leading to 
the birth of a project, the seeding, the evolutions, the mutability and 
transmission procedures between actors, and the death of the project.

By addressing both those factors, I think we are much closer to a blueprint more 
realistically applicable to Collective Intelligence in Enterprise.

## In Space

Space, or environment, or external impacting factors, are bringing some constraints:

- **Deadlines** they can be bound to, for example, to 
  - events taking place at given dates,
  - synchronization with other projects,
  - unexpected hazards like security alerts,
  - partnership contractual obligation,
  - legal obligations from local state,

Deadlines impact the **emerging whole**, in the sense that an organized group cannot rely
on unpredictable emergence, and requires some enforcement mechanism to comply with deadlines.
It leads to the necessity to setup a steering system, that will watch over deadlines and
adjust the whole for timely emergence. This can be done in a very soft way, by nudging
more than hardcore enforcement. But there are many situations where it's obvious that
arbitrary decisions have to be made for the sake of meeting deadlines.

Many Open Source projects have very small concern for deadlines, because they reduce their
environmental surface area. But large Open Source projects can't escape this. For example 
it's very convenient for large projects to make a contract with user about the release 
cycle periodicity. Gitlab releases every month, there is a new Ubuntu release every 6 months,
and yes, both those projects are lead by companies.

The ways to address this constraint requires an extra attention to the **holopticism**.
Each participant needs to be totally aware of deadlines so they can adjust their own pace.

Certain deadline involve specific tasks, like releases for example, which can be subject to
a rotation for better resiliency, in the spirit of **switchable roles**. 
The example of [how Gitlab manages releases][gitlabreleases] illustrates this concept pretty well.

Often there is going to be the need to identify certain roles for deadline enforcement
in the case of events. Depending the scale, it can be clever to create 
**specialized sub-collectives**. Like the "2017 rubyconf team" or the "first tuesday meetup team".
But it also can be a **switchable role** in case of small requirements for the task.

The same goes for dependencies with other projects or vendors, or legal authorities. The
Collectively Intelligent organization usually need to provide some dedicated contact role
which can be either a person or a group. Such a group or person will then be in charge 
to inform the rest of the organization about their own deadlines and other requirements.

For an optimal and fluid operation, those roles and constraints need to be clear in the 
**rules of the game** and possibly in the **arbitration mechanism** too. Sometimes failing
on a deadline can be very harmful for the project and the collective, and the collective
then need some aggressive process to protect its survival.

It's especially true for security alerts, in case of software development projects or 
projects managing infrastructures, which require a strongly steered crisis management 
with very tight deadlines.


- **Conformity** with the environment
  - legal requirements
  - 

[CIOSS]: http://blog.mose.com/2017/07/11/collective-intelligence-and-open-source/
[gitlabreleases]: https://about.gitlab.com/release-managers/
